1. Until now, data was stored in-memory, which is bad for few reasons:
 - There are multiple servers in real world, we can't be writing in memory data in all of them, and if server crashes then data is lost in it - basically inconsistency issues
 - Data won't be dynamic, if we update in memory objects and server crashes or process restarts => data will be lost and back to initial data

2. In real world, basic architecture looks like:

    `Browser ------->  Backend ---------> Database`

   - user hits the backends (there can be multiple)
   - backend hits the database
   - user can't directly access database

3. There are multiple types of Databases
   - SQL DBs
   - NoSql DBs
   - Vector DBs
   - Graph DBs
4. How does backends connect to Databases?
   - Using Libraries
   - Like below libraries: 
     - `Express` lets you create HTTP servers
     - `jsonwebtoken` lets you create JWT signed tokens
     - `Mongoose` lets you connect to your database

5. Few Questions:
   - Q: Why don't users directly hits Database?
     - Databases were created using protocols which browsers doesn't understand

      - Databases doesn't have Granular access (ability to access something user or group based) which makes DBs safe and persistent.
      - `firebase` is exception, it provides **fine grain** access to users without the need of http server => users can directly access certain resources after validation checks they are belongs to those certain user or groups who have provided with the access of those certain resources.
   - Q: What extra does HTTP server provides?
       - They provides security and authentication facility

## Databases

- What are **Databases?**
   - They usually allows 4 important operations in efficient manner
   - **CRUD** (**C**reate, **R**ead, **U**pdate, **D**elete)
   - We'll learn using `mongoose` library to talk to `mongodb`
   - Eventually we'll use `prisma`, which is **ORM** used to talk to databases.
   - Cluster > Database > Tables
   - Cluster is made up of multiple databases, databases are made up of multiple tables

- **MongoDB & mongoose library** 
  - mongoDB is schemaless, can put any data without worrying about the structure of data.
  - In mongoose, 1st we **have to define schema**.
  - what is **schema**? schema is structure of data we are gonna put in DB.
  - So, mongoose taking perks of mongodb away? kinda yes but putting schemaless data in DB is very dangerous and mongoose prevents that.
  - It doesn't mean we can't put schemaless data in mongodb we still can, but mongoose provides benefits like:
    - Auto Completions
    - Validation data before it goes to DB
    - Making sure to use schemas to make mongoDB less dangerous
  - Similar to `JavaScript` & `TypeScript` as TS provides more **type safety** on top of JS.
  - mongoDb let us put **nested complex objects** in DB, which **SQL DBs doesn't**. => easy is establish relationships between data.
  - We'll first do mongoose connection test example. refer file: `2.mongooseConnect.js`
  - Then we'll do the following:
       - Connect to mongoDB using `mongoose` library.
       - Define data schema for mongoose.
       - We'll have 3 routes: `/signup`, `/signin`, `/users`
         1. `/signup`: user will send `email`, `password`, `name`  in body and we'll put it in DB provided same user email doesn't exists
         2. `/signin`: we'll check if user exits in db or not with correct password, if it does => return JWT signed token.
         3. `/users`: user sends header with his jwt token, we'll return all the users present in db (except the logged in user itself)