### Few Cryptography things:

1. Hashing (converting simple text to some random gibberish)
   
    - When we signup our password doesn't get directly stored in DB, first it gets hashed and corresponding hashed password gets stored in DB
    - so, when next time user sends any subsequent request again, that hash gets compared with stored hashed password
    - Hashing is uni directional, given the output, no one can find the input
    - change input a little bit changes the output hash a lot

2. Encryption
    - 2 way, needs password or key to encrypt and decrypt
    - string is encrypt using password and then can be decrypted using the same password


3. **JSON Web Tokens (JWT)**

    - JSON: Takes json as input
      Web:  Made for web (web was use case)
      Token: converts JSON to long string => this long string is token (not hashed)

    - from this token origin object can be decoded (but only after verification)

      JWT:

      ```
      complex JSON object -> jwt.encode() -> long string (token)
       
      can be decoded by anyone, but can only be verified who have password
      ```

      Encryption:
      ```
       Any data -> encryption -> encrypted data
      (can only be decoded by who have key or password)
       ```

    - verification meaning in JWT ?
  
      on backend need password and json both then only it gets verified and returns decoded token

      jwt.decode() => to decode

      jwt.verify() => to verify at backend too

      SO...
       - JWT is neither hashing or encryption (it's technically a digital signature)
       - Anyone can see the og output given the signature
       - signature can be verified only using password

4. Local Storage:

     - A place in your browser when you can store some data
     - usual stored data is: Authentication tokens, User Language preferences, User Theme preferences
     - In browser
          ```
          inspect -> Application -> local storage
          ````
          
### Auhtentication vs Authorization
- Authentication verifies who someone is, while authorization determines what they are allowed to do after authentication.
- Essentially, authentication confirms your identity, and authorization controls your access to specific resources. 

### How does Authentication works - signup and signin?
#### Signup
1. When user do signup, username and password goes to backend, username (check happens whether user exists or not) & password (gets hashed) => No Authentication happens here.
2. Checks gets performed whether user exists or not if not exists password gets hashed using some hashing logic and that hashed password and username gets stored in DB
#### Signin
1. At 1st signin - user sends username and password to backend, username check and compares the hashed password in DB with the hash of input password.
2. if above credentials are valid => creates a JWT token and retuns to frontend (usually stored in localStorage or cookies).
3. Next time whenever user again sends request then instead of again taking username and password, Frontend sends: JWT in the Authorization: Bearer <token> header.
4. Backend does:
   - Verifies the JWT using the backend's secret key (no DB lookup required).
	- If valid:
	   - Decodes token and gets username or userId.
	   - Proceeds to authorize or process the request.
	- If invalid/expired:
	   - Rejects request (401 Unauthorized).
